mind your decisions I'm presto Walker
start with a semicircle from the upper
right corner carefully fold a circular
segment until it just touches the
diameter and divides the diameter into
lengths of four and two the question is
what is the length of the folded line I
think Yenta for the suggestion
the problem is adapted from a Belgian
mathematical olympiad pause the video if
you'd like to give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching to
learn how to solve this problem
[Music]
to solve this problem we must use the
little gray cells we start with a
circular segment that is reflected about
line a B the resulting circular segment
is tangent at Point T and divides the
diameter into lengths of four and two
the entire diameter will have a length
equal to six label the center of this
semicircle as P the radius of the
semicircle will be one-half its diameter
and therefore it will be equal to three
consequently PT has a length equal to
one now consider the reflected or folded
circular segment let's draw the circle
containing this circular segment because
the original circular segment belonged
to a semi circle of radius three the
resulting circle will also have a radius
equal to three furthermore the center of
this circle will exactly be the image of
P about line segment a B you can see
this because both are equidistant from
points a and B and there are symmetry
about line segment a B if we construct P
prime T it will be perpendicular to this
diameter and it will have a length equal
to three we can therefore focus on just
this right triangle we can calculate the
length of the hypotenuse using the Gogu
theorem and we get the distance between
the two centers is equal to the square
root of ten let's construct Point C as
the midpoint of the hypotenuse we can
then get PC is equal to one-half the
square root of ten since C is exactly
halfway between P and P Prime
it will also be a long line segment a B
now let's construct the radius P a since
it's a radius of this semicircle it will
have a length of three we will then
focus on the right triangle P AC we can
calculate the length of AC using the
Gogu theorem we get the result of the
square root of 26 all over 2
we then go back to the diagram and we
can calculate the length of a B which
will be exactly twice AC and therefore
the length of the folded line will be
equal to the square root of 26 which is
approximately 5.1 and that's the answer
I think it's a really neat problem
thanks for making mind your decisions
one of the best channels on YouTube as
always thanks for watching
and thanks for your support
[Music]